Add Mappers' Report: April news post (#3539)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2020-05-08-mappers-report-april.md

### [April 11th, 2020 - Genre and Language Settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1059659)

Recent changes to the website allow mappers to set genre and language on their own beatmaps — a feature which had only been available to moderators on the old website. With these changes, the NAT decided to revisit what genres and languages are available and work out some of the kinks in the current list. 

Changes have been proposed, including adding popular genres like Metal, Classical, and Folk, along with adding new categorizations like Vocaloid and Doujin. You can find the full list of suggested changes [on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852#issuecomment-616219839), where discussion is still taking place.

No additional meetings have been planned so far, but the NAT will be sure to get the word out when there's new topics on the horizon!

## <a id="within-bn-nat"></a>Within the Beatmap Nominators and NAT

New Beatmap Nominators! Quick, request all your beatmaps! Jokes aside, the Beatmap Nominators are never resting. New people come, old people go. Here you can see what happened within the Beatmap Nominators this month!

### BN Additions

> - **osu!:** [Agatsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5579871)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **osu!:** [Agatsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5579871) & [Smoke](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10726630)
```

- **osu!taiko:** [Greenshell](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8693851)
- **osu!catch:** [Dako](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11081858)
- **osu!mania:** [Sun](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4115819)

Interested in becoming a Beatmap Nominator and deciding what maps reach ranked? Want to help new mappers to get their beatmaps ranked? Head to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/) and apply today! 

### BN Resignations

> - **osu!:** [celerih](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4696296), [Chinochan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3626063), [Uta](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9439796) & [Ryuusei Aika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7777875)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **osu!:** [celerih](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4696296), [Chinochan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3626063) & [Namki](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5248582)
```

> - **osu!catch:** [Daletto](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7592136) & [Lacrima](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4915649)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **osu!catch:** [Lacrima](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4915649)
```

### Electoz Advanced Modding Guide

> Making waves in the modding community recently is the freshly published modding guide by [Electoz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6485263) who is a former Beatmap Nominator and long-time mentor in the Mapping Mentorship Program. The modding guide which can be found on their userpage goes in-depth on basically everything you would need to know about modding at a more advanced level. Electoz has fully infused the guide with his own knowledge and experiences, and the guide itself is largely based off how they would mentor successful aspiring modders! If you're into modding, or want to get into it, checking out the Electoz Advanced Modding Guide should definitely be worth your while.

Reviewer: Electoz mentioned on twitter that he'd be updating it semi-frequently, so if we did a direct link it'd end up outdated, compared to telling people where to find it which would always be the most recent version.  If changed to add the link I'd do this

```suggestion
Making waves in the modding community recently is the freshly published modding guide by [Electoz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6485263) who is a former Beatmap Nominator and long-time mentor in the Mapping Mentorship Program. The modding guide which can be found on their userpage and [here](https://electoz.s-ul.eu/N7Y53Jaj) goes in-depth on basically everything you would need to know about modding at a more advanced level. Electoz has fully infused the guide with his own knowledge and experiences, and the guide itself is largely based off how they would mentor successful aspiring modders! If you're into modding, or want to get into it, checking out the Electoz Advanced Modding Guide should definitely be worth your while.
```

- **[Rule/Guideline for Featured Artist Metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1051871)**
- **[Genre and Language settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1044226)**
- **[Allowing .ogg files as main audio source](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1021547)**
- **[Cleaning up rule about cutting unmapped audio](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/996498)**

For osu!:

- **[Intuitive Reverse Arrow Movement](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1033709)**
- **[Explicitly state that custom visual elements don't apply to visual rules](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1061495)**

For osu!taiko:

- **[Finisher in Oni difficulty](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1049985)**
- **[Drumroll at 125 or lower BPM](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1046595)**

For osu!catch:

- **[Dashes and Higher-Snapped Dashes on Rain difficulties](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1033696)**

## <a id="nat-meetings"></a>NAT Meetings

While NAT meetings have covered all planned topics and have slowly come to a close, changes to the website spurred the NAT to hold an additional one.

> If you have any topics which should be discussed in future meetings, or a proposal you'd like to push to NAT, please do not hesitate to make a post about it on the [NAT Meetings Overview](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1041618)! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any topics which should be discussed in future meetings, or a proposal you'd like to push to NAT, please do not hesitate to make a post about it on the [NAT Meetings forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1041618)! 
```
make it clear what people are clicking

Once enough topics are gathered, future NAT meeting dates will be announced in further Mappers' Report issues, in #modding on the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy) and on the forums!

### [April 11th, 2020 - Genre and Language Settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1059659)

> Recent changes to the website allow us to set genre and language once more, a feature which had only been available on the old website for a long time. With these changes, we decided to revisit what genres and languages are available and work out some of the kinks in the current list. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recent changes to the website allow mappers to set genre and language on their own beatmaps — a feature which had only been available to moderators on the old website. With these changes, the NAT decided to revisit what genres and languages are available and work out some of the kinks in the current list. 
```
big clarifications

> Quite a few changes have been proposed like adding popular genres such as Metal; Classical; Folk and adding new categorizations like Vocaloid or Doujin. You can find the full list of suggested changes [on github](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852#issuecomment-616219839), where discussion is still taking place.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Quite a few changes have been proposed like adding popular genres such as Metal, Classical, or Folk, as well as adding new categorizations like Vocaloid or Doujin. You can find the full list of suggested changes [on GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852#issuecomment-616219839), where discussion is still taking place.
```

> Quite a few changes have been proposed like adding popular genres such as Metal; Classical; Folk and adding new categorizations like Vocaloid or Doujin. You can find the full list of suggested changes [on github](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852#issuecomment-616219839), where discussion is still taking place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes have been proposed, including adding popular genres like Metal, Classical, and Folk, along with adding new categorizations like Vocaloid and Doujin. You can find the full list of suggested changes [on github](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852#issuecomment-616219839), where discussion is still taking place.
```

> No additional meetings have been planned so far, but we'll be sure to get the word out when there's new topics on the horizon!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No additional meetings have been planned so far, but the NAT will be sure to get the word out when there's new topics on the horizon!
```

## <a id="within-bn-nat"></a>Within the Beatmap Nominators and NAT

New Beatmap Nominators! Quick, request all your beatmaps! Jokes aside, the Beatmap Nominators are never resting. New people come, old people go. Here you can see what happened within the Beatmap Nominators this month!

### BN Additions

- **osu!:** [Agatsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5579871)
- **osu!taiko:** [Greenshell](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8693851)
- **osu!catch:** [Dako](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11081858)
- **osu!mania:** [Sun](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4115819)

> Ever been interested in getting a Beatmap Nominator and deciding what maps get ranked next? Or you just want to help new mappers to get their beatmaps ranked? Then head right over to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/) and apply today! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interested in becoming a Beatmap Nominator and deciding what maps reach ranked? Want to help new mappers to get their beatmaps ranked? Head to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/) and apply today! 
```

### BN Resignations

- **osu!:** [celerih](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4696296), [Chinochan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3626063), [Uta](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9439796) & [Ryuusei Aika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7777875)
- **osu!catch:** [Daletto](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7592136) & [Lacrima](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4915649)

### NAT Additions

> Our office cat **[Mao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2204515)** has returned! After stepping down from the NAT duties in December 2019, he decided to make his return. Mao will lend the other osu! NATs a helping hand with doing Beatmap Nominator evaluations. Welcome back!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our office cat **[Mao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2204515)** has returned! After stepping down from the NAT duties in December 2019, he decided to make his return. Mao is lending the other osu! NAT members a helping hand with Beatmap Nominator evaluations. Welcome back!
```

## <a id="mappers-showcase"></a>Mappers' Showcase

> The Mappers' Showcase will bring to you Mappers from every game mode which not everyone might know. They are hand-selected and a hidden gem for their game mode. 

Reviewer 3: this capitalisation feels a little... German? It's not a given name so lowercase is probably fine.

Second sentence could maybe use a rewording (sounds a little objectifying I guess? like it's talking about a map, and not a mapper) but don't have a concrete suggestion just yet.
```suggestion
The Mappers' Showcase will bring to you mappers from every game mode which not everyone might know. They are hand-selected and a hidden gem for their game mode. 
```

> The Mappers' Showcase will bring to you Mappers from every game mode which not everyone might know. They are hand-selected and a hidden gem for their game mode. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Mappers' Showcase parades lesser-known mappers from every game mode. 
```
and combine with the next paragraph

> This month will feature osu!taiko and the selectors were [radar](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7131099) and [Capu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2474015).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This month features osu!taiko thanks to the our selectors [radar](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7131099) and [Capu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2474015).
```

### Idealism

> **[Idealism](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3869519)** is a osu!taiko mapper (as well as an osu! top player) from Brazil who has been around in the community for a while now, though he definitely deserves more credit for his work in the mapping scene! His maps blend creativity with smooth and interesting patterning which will leave a good taste in the mouths of mappers and players alike.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**[Idealism](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3869519)** is an osu!taiko mapper (as well as an osu! top player) from Brazil who has been around in the community for a while now, though he definitely deserves more credit for his work in the mapping scene! His maps blend creativity with smooth and interesting patterning which will leave a good taste in the mouths of mappers and players alike.
```

> **[Idealism](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3869519)** is a osu!taiko mapper (as well as an osu! top player) from Brazil who has been around in the community for a while now, though he definitely deserves more credit for his work in the mapping scene! His maps blend creativity with smooth and interesting patterning which will leave a good taste in the mouths of mappers and players alike.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**[Idealism](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3869519)** is an osu!taiko mapper (as well as an osu! top player) from Brazil who has been around the community for a while now, though he definitely deserves more credit for his work in the mapping scene! His maps blend creativity with smooth and interesting patterning which leave a good taste in the mouths of mappers and players alike.
```

> A map of his that truly shines in many people's eyes is his semi-recently ranked rendition of [Cyte - Command Prompt](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1068145#taiko/2236237). On the top difficulty (mind bogglingly named "C:\Program Files\Difficulties\434f525255505445442046494c45.exe"), Idealism proves that even when mapping genres out of his comfort zone he can still shine. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A map of his that truly shines in many people's eyes is his semi-recently ranked rendition of [Cyte - Command Prompt](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1068145#taiko/2236237). On the top difficulty (mind-bogglingly named "C:\Program Files\Difficulties\434f525255505445442046494c45.exe"), Idealism proves that even when mapping genres out of his comfort zone he can still shine. 
```

> A map of his that truly shines in many people's eyes is his semi-recently ranked rendition of [Cyte - Command Prompt](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1068145#taiko/2236237). On the top difficulty (mind bogglingly named "C:\Program Files\Difficulties\434f525255505445442046494c45.exe"), Idealism proves that even when mapping genres out of his comfort zone he can still shine. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A map of his that truly shines is his rendition of [Cyte - Command Prompt](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1068145#taiko/2236237) ranked at the start of the year. On the top difficulty (mind bogglingly named "C:\Program Files\Difficulties\434f525255505445442046494c45.exe"), Idealism proves that even when mapping genres out of his comfort zone he can still shine. 
```

> Some of his other notable and equally as great maps would be his renditions of [Blue on Blue (TamorlaM Btlg Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/965135#taiko/2020395) and [White Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/992443#taiko/2075446), where he shows off his addiction to eroge music through his solid mapping! We hope to see even more of his maps coming into the ranked section in the rest of 2020, as his potential to shine even brighter clearly shows!

Reviewer 3: `renditions` repeats, and the sentence doesn't transition super well
```suggestion
Some of his other notable and equally great maps would be his renditions of [Blue on Blue (TamorlaM Btlg Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/965135#taiko/2020395) and [White Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/992443#taiko/2075446), where he shows off his addiction to eroge music through his solid mapping! We hope to see even more of his maps coming into the ranked section in the rest of 2020, as his potential to shine even brighter clearly shows!
```

> Some of his other notable and equally as great maps would be his renditions of [Blue on Blue (TamorlaM Btlg Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/965135#taiko/2020395) and [White Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/992443#taiko/2075446), where he shows off his addiction to eroge music through his solid mapping! We hope to see even more of his maps coming into the ranked section in the rest of 2020, as his potential to shine even brighter clearly shows!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of his other notable and equally as great maps would be his renditions of [Blue on Blue (TamorlaM Btlg Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/965135#taiko/2020395) and [White Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/992443#taiko/2075446), where he shows off his addiction to eroge music through his solid mapping! We hope to see more of his maps coming into the ranked section in the rest of 2020, as his potential to shine even brighter clearly shows!
```
avoid "even" back to back

> ### Yuemiao

Reviewer 2: "definitely" is used in every sentence of thsi section. max it out at like 2 usages please :(

Recently making her first appearance in the ranked section with her take on [Mizutama by YUC'e and Nor](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1009290#taiko/2112927),  **[Yuemiao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4493348)** shows us that she definitely knows what she's doing.

> Executing many different snaps and rhythms perfectly, with clean consistency throughout her difficulties, making this map definitely one of the most interesting ones in the ranked section as of late.

Reviewer 3: This sentence is missing a subject (maybe could be merged into the previous one)?

> Executing many different snaps and rhythms perfectly, with clean consistency throughout her difficulties, making this map definitely one of the most interesting ones in the ranked section as of late.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Perfect execution of different snaps and rhythms along with clean consistency throughout her difficulties makes this map one of the most interesting additions to the ranked section as of late.
```
sentence

> Adding her own little rhythms with an intuitive yet interesting kat placement, really shows how good osu!taiko can sound and how it's possible to enhance the song that is mapped when someone knows their craft!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By adding her own little rhythms with an intuitive yet interesting kat placement, she really shows how good osu!taiko can sound and how it's possible to enhance the song that is mapped when someone knows their craft!
```

> Adding her own little rhythms with an intuitive yet interesting kat placement, really shows how good osu!taiko can sound and how it's possible to enhance the song that is mapped when someone knows their craft!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implementing her own little rhythms with intuitive yet interesting kat placement really shows how good osu!taiko can sound and how it's possible to enhance the song that is mapped when someone knows their craft!
```

> Her ability to also map faster and more chaotic songs just goes to show that she can handle multiple genres and definitely can create something clean for everyone's taste. Try it yourself with this well polished unranked set of [IZANA - t+pazolite vs. P*Light](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1100797#taiko/2299870), which also includes very smooth SV sections, making this pleasant to the eye as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Her ability to also map faster and more chaotic songs just goes to show that she can handle multiple genres and definitely can create something clean for everyone's taste. Try it yourself with this well-polished unranked set of [IZANA - t+pazolite vs. P*Light](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1100797#taiko/2299870), which also includes very smooth SV sections, making it pleasant to the eye as well.
```

> Her ability to also map faster and more chaotic songs just goes to show that she can handle multiple genres and definitely can create something clean for everyone's taste. Try it yourself with this well polished unranked set of [IZANA - t+pazolite vs. P*Light](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1100797#taiko/2299870), which also includes very smooth SV sections, making this pleasant to the eye as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Her ability to map faster and more chaotic songs just goes to show that she can handle multiple genres and definitely can create something clean for everyone's taste. See what we mean for yourself with this well polished unranked set of [t+pazolite vs. P*Light - IZANA](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1100797#taiko/2299870), which also includes very smooth SV sections for a pleasant viewing experience.
```

> Yuemiao definitely deserves more credit, as she is quite unknown and surprised many with her first ranked map. The current 28 ratings on her Mizatuma consist of 27(!) 10* votes. If ratings could talk, we wouldn't have to phrase this.

Reviewer 3: the exclamation point looks a little colloquial, could maybe emphasise in a more literary way like this?
```suggestion
Yuemiao definitely deserves more credit, as she is quite unknown and surprised many with her first ranked map. From the current 28 ratings on her Mizatuma set, 27 (*twenty-seven!*) are 10* votes, which speaks for itself.
```

> Yuemiao definitely deserves more credit, as she is quite unknown and surprised many with her first ranked map. The current 28 ratings on her Mizatuma consist of 27(!) 10* votes. If ratings could talk, we wouldn't have to phrase this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yuemiao definitely deserves more credit, as she is quite unknown and has surprised many with her first ranked map. The current 28 ratings on her Mizatuma consist of 27(!) 10 star votes. If ratings could talk, we wouldn't have to phrase this.
```
grammar/clarity

> We are definitely looking forward to more of her maps in the future and expect something great!

Reviewer 3: end of sentence feels kind of tacked-on
```suggestion
We are definitely looking forward to more of her maps in the future!
```

> The next month will feature osu!catch. But that's not all yet. We want to give every player the chance to raise their voice for the Mappers' Showcase. That's why we created this [form](https://forms.gle/kM5SW33xp1HttS7D8) where everyone can submit mappers and storyboarder of which they think they should be featured in one of the next issues of the Mappers' Report!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next month will feature osu!catch — but that's not all! As we want to give every player the chance to raise their voice for the Mappers' Showcase, we've created [this](https://forms.gle/kM5SW33xp1HttS7D8) form, where everyone can submit the names of mappers and storyboarders who in their opinion should be featured in one of the next issues of the Mappers' Report!
```

We're excited as you to see which gems are still hidden in osu!

## <a id="mapping-contests"></a>Mapping Contests
 

> Flex your mapping muscles by voting and participating in some of this month's ongoing contests! Contest veterans, however, might find it more appropriate to release tension as they see some of this month's mapping contest results.

Reviewer 3: I'm not completely sure what that second sentence is trying to convey :P

Reviewer 2: old contest results are published later in the section

 
### Monthly Beatmapping Contest
 
As per usual, the [Monthly Beatmapping Contest](https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/Contests/Monthly_Beatmapping_Contest) (*MBC*) is here to provide your regular dosage of competitive mapping! Each month's contest features a different mapping limitation that entries must adhere to.
 

> April's contest is currently in its voting stage! Visit its [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/93) to vote for any 2 of the top 5 entries, and keep in mind its limitation — sliders in all entries were required to use reverses, meaning normal slider rhythms were not allowed!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
April's contest is currently in its voting stage! Visit its [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/93) to vote for any 2 of the top 5 entries, and keep in mind its limitation — sliders in all entries were required to use reverses, meaning normal slider rhythms were not allowed!
```
the pronouns feel a smidge confusing?
```suggestion
April's contest is currently in its voting stage! Visit the [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/93) to vote for any 2 of the top 5 entries, and keep in mind that sliders in all entries were required to use reverses, meaning normal slider rhythms were not allowed!
```

 
### Mapping With Rewards
 
Mapping With Rewards was a deadline-free mapping contest with a reputation for... well, not having a conclusion. We should've seen that one coming.
 
The contest required users to submit a full beatmap spread of any game mode for any of 3 specified [Featured Artist](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists) songs (listed below). The submissions were judged anonymously based on their creativity, cohesion as a spread, musical expression, and general judge impressions. It's been 3 years, so let's put this contest to rest by announcing the long-overdue winners of [Mapping With Rewards 2017](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2017-09-23-mapping-with-rewards-returns):
 
#### [Loki/Thaehan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/7) - A New King Is Born

- [osu! mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/760694) by [DMT9 Nowa](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5428909)

> - [osu!taiko mapset]() by [Raiden](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2239480)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [osu!taiko mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1158282) by [Raiden](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2239480)
```

- [osu!mania mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/772257) by [chouyaa](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8404646)

#### [*namirin](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/18) - closing eyes

- [osu! mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/669437) by [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418)
- [osu!taiko mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/705499) by [Nardoxyribonucleic](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/876419)

#### [Fractal Dreamers](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/15) - Fortuna Redux

- [osu! mapset](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/712974/) by [DMT9 Nowa](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5428909)
 

> Each of the winners has been awarded with the Mapping With Rewards profile seen below! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of the winners has been awarded with the Mapping With Rewards profile badge seen below! 
```

 
![](/wiki/shared/news/2020-05-08-mappers-report-april/mwr_badge2x.png)
 

> Late congratulations to the winners and thank you to [Okoratu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1623405), [Mir](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8688812), [Zetera](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/587737), [Nepuri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6637817), [Yuzeyun](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/481582), [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785), and [Protastic101](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6712747) for judging entries over a year ago. Full judging comments and more can be found in [this forum post](LINK).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Late congratulations to the winners and thank you to [Okoratu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1623405), [Mir](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8688812), [Zetera](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/587737), [Nepuri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6637817), [Yuzeyun](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/481582), [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785), and [Protastic101](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6712747) for judging entries over a year ago. Full judging comments and more can be found in [this forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/7139243).
```
will edit the forum post

 
With that said, Mapping With Rewards has reached its end. Closure, *finally*!

### osu! Beatmapping World Championship 2020

The largest group mapping contest of the year has arrived! This contest pits mappers from different countries against each other in a format never before utilized for mapping. Give its [news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2020-05-02-beatmapping-world-championship-2020) a read if you're interested, and see [the project's website](https://obwc.net/) for more details!

---

While we try to keep watch over all running contests, we might miss some. If you're aware of a mapping contest that should receive more attention, head to [this forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1027590) to submit it for inclusion in the next issue of the Mappers' Report!

## <a id="around-community"></a>Around the Community

> This section is all about interesting things which have been happening or will happen soon in the mapping and modding community! Should you have/know about something interesting that's happening within the mapping community, be sure to let [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) know about it! For this month, we have updates on the mapping podcast **The osu! Map Cast**, the **Electoz Advanced Modding Guide**, and how **super long marathons can now be ranked**!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section is all about interesting things which have been happening or will happen soon in the mapping and modding community! Should you have/know about something worth including, be sure to let [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) know about it! For this month, we have updates on the mapping podcast **The osu! Map Cast**, the **Electoz Advanced Modding Guide**, and how **super long marathons can now be ranked**!
```

### Electoz Advanced Modding Guide

> Making waves in the modding community recently is the freshly published modding guide by [Electoz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6485263) who is a former Beatmap Nominator and long-time mentor in the Mapping Mentorship Program. The modding guide which can be found on their userpage goes in-depth on basically everything you would need to know about modding at a more advanced level. Electoz has fully infused the guide with his own knowledge and experiences, and the guide itself is largely based off how they would mentor successful aspiring modders! If you're into modding, or want to get into it, checking out the Electoz Advanced Modding Guide should definitely be worth your while.

Reviewer 2: include a link to the thing?

Author: I mean, it says that you can find it on the userpage. And there is a huuuuge banner which just says "Click me".

Reviewer: Electoz mentioned on twitter that he'd be updating it semi-frequently, so if we did a direct link it'd end up outdated, compared to telling people where to find it which would always be the most recent version.  If changed to add the link I'd do this

```suggestion
Making waves in the modding community recently is the freshly published modding guide by [Electoz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6485263) who is a former Beatmap Nominator and long-time mentor in the Mapping Mentorship Program. The modding guide which can be found on their userpage and [here](https://electoz.s-ul.eu/N7Y53Jaj) goes in-depth on basically everything you would need to know about modding at a more advanced level. Electoz has fully infused the guide with his own knowledge and experiences, and the guide itself is largely based off how they would mentor successful aspiring modders! If you're into modding, or want to get into it, checking out the Electoz Advanced Modding Guide should definitely be worth your while.
```

### Super long marathons are now rankable!

> Yes, you heard that right. Until recently, extremely long maps could not be ranked due to breaking the score limit, since the scoreboards wouldn't reflect everyone's plays properly anyways. Now the developers have changed it so that super long maps which break the score limit even without mods will have score v2 force enabled. In such cases, these score v2 scores will be submittable, finally allowing super long maps to have proper leaderboards. This means we'll be seeing extremely long maps ranked in the future, which is a really exciting improvement!

Reviewer 2: if any are ranked now, an example would be cool

Reviewer: Not yet, the ZUN marathon by Yukiyo was disqualified for storyboard stuff and Nevo's famous Oral Cigarettes Compilation is waiting to be his 100th ranked map. Not sure how appropriate it'd be to mention maps that aren't ranked (yet) here.

Author: Since there are no ranked maps where this apply to i would leave it out

Reviewer: Main reason it's here is it's similar to an RC change (but not literally RC) where restrictions are lifted that's good for people to know about new possibilities

<a id="conclusion"></a>

---

> And that's it for this month! Every month we try to make the Mappers' Report shorter but we simply can't. It happens too much in the community which needs to be covered every month. And we're very happy about it! To see so many community driven projects. We're excited to see what the next month has for us. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And that's it for this month! Every month we try to make the Mappers' Report shorter but we simply can't because so much happens in the community. And we're very happy about that! We're excited to see what the next month has for us. 
```
